- [Instructor] While the single service database pattern
is usually a more effective one,
there are some times when you must use a shared database.
The shared database pattern isn't really much new,
especially if you have done some application development
in your life.
In reality, this is an enterprise construct that is
carried over into a distributed model like microservices,
mainly due to contracts that have already been signed.
There are some ways we can pattern our data, however,
in our data store to be more effective
for eventually breaking the database up.
The given in this case is that all data domains exist
within a single database instance.
The key here is we can still treat them
as separate databases from a code concept
even if physically they are single instance.
Data distribution should still be handled
by the database itself.
If you're deploying to multiple data centers,
you need the database to handle the data synchronization
across the data centers themselves.
Pushing that to code will cause databases
to become out of sync.
Even with some more modern databases,
replication across WAN gateways is an afterthought,
and you may lose database functionality
when you consume them.
So choose your databases well.
While we won't get the scalability benefits
of a single instance database,
we can structure our data so that we can isolate it
and prepare it for a hopeful breakout one day.
To do this,
we need to leverage schemas, key spaces,
or similar logical groupings
within the database engine itself.
This way our code will be written
with a single database isolation model,
even if the database is shared.
To ensure we have proper segmentation,
each schema and each service that consumes that schema
should have unique credentials.
Those credentials should never span the logical breaks.
If you have a user that can connect to multiple schemas,
you might as well stick with the existing model
that you have.
The idea here is to break it up,
even if only logically.
In a similar vein,
the data domain should connect to a single schema.
Again, we're treating these systems
as though they're isolated,
even if they aren't.
By enforcing this pattern,
you can better break the database up at a later time
because the data and the apps
are already logically isolated,
even if unfortunately,
your database has to be shared.